THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5373.4.
OF THE TIME VORTEX,
AROUND THE PLANET
WE ARE IN ORBIT
THE FOCUS OF ALL THE TIMELINES
OF OUR GALAXY.
OUR MISSION IS TO ASSIST
A TEAM OF HISTORIANS
OF FEDERATION HISTORY.
IN THE INVESTIGATION
[DRONING]
THE TRAVELERS ARE RETURNING.
Guardian:
CEASE REVIEW.
Kirk: WHAT A TRIP, BONES.
OF ITS CIVILIZATION.
ORION, AT THE DAWN
EVEN JUST OBSERVING,
NOT TOUCHING ANYTHING
SOME PIECE OF HISTORY...
FOR FEAR OF CHANGING
WHAT'S THE MATTER? BONES?
WHO'S HE, JIM?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN, "WHO'S HE?"
YOU KNOW MR. SPOCK.
AFRAID I DON'T, JIM.
-KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
-Scotty: ENTERPRISE.
-Kirk: BEAM UP.
-AYE, SIR.
OF THE HISTORIANS WITH YOU.
EXPECTING THERE TO BE ONE
CAPTAIN, I WAS
-BUT A VULCAN...
-EXPLAIN YOURSELF, MR. SCOTT.
-SIR?
-I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON,
BUT THE FIRST OFFICER
OF THIS SHIP WILL BE
TREATED WITH RESPECT.
CAPTAIN, I ASSURE YOU
TREATED ME OTHERWISE.
NO ONE HAS EVER
WHO ARE YOU?
OH, I THOUGHT SURE YOU'D KNOW
THELIN BY NOW, JIM.
HE'S BEEN YOUR FIRST OFFICER
FOR FIVE YEARS.
THAT THIS IS NOT A GAME.
CAPTAIN, I HAVE COME
TO THE CONCLUSION
NO, BUT IF IT'S REALITY,
WHAT HAPPENED?
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
IN THE TIME VORTEX,
WHEN WE WERE
SOMETHING APPEARS TO HAVE
CHANGED THE PRESENT
AS WE KNOW IT.
RECOGNIZES MR. SPOCK.
NO ONE ABOARD
THE ONLY ANSWER IS THAT THE PAST
WAS SOMEHOW ALTERED.
NOTHING.
I CAN'T FIND ONE THING WE DID
WHEN WE WERE IN THE VORTEX
HAVE AFFECTED THE FUTURE.
THAT COULD POSSIBLY
BUT SOMETHING WAS CHANGED.
I AM THE ONLY ONE AFFECTED.
IT SEEMS, CAPTAIN,
THE CREW, EXCEPT FOR MYSELF,
THE MISSION, THE SHIP,
REMAIN THE SAME.
AND NO ONE ELSE ABOARD DOES.
BUT I KNOW WHO YOU ARE,
WHILE WE WERE IN ORION'S PAST,
THAT TOOK PLACE HERE
THE TIME REVISION
DIDN'T AFFECT ME.
KIRK HERE.
COMMANDER THELIN ASKED FOR.
THE STARFLEET RECORDS
SIR, WE'VE CHECKED
Kirk: YOUR FINDINGS?
THERE IS NO VULCAN NAMED SPOCK
SERVING WITH THE STARFLEET
IN ANY CAPACITY.
DID YOU ALSO RESEARCH THE VULCAN
FAMILY HISTORY REQUESTED?
YES, SIR. I CAN RELAY THAT
TO YOUR SCREEN.
SAREK OF VULCAN.
PLANETS IN THE PAST 30 YEARS.
AMBASSADOR TO 17 FEDERATION
-THAT IS NOT CORRECT.
-IT IS IN THIS CASE.
I WISH TO ASK A QUESTION.
WHAT OF SAREK'S FAMILY,
HIS WIFE AND SON?
AMANDA, WIFE OF SAREK.
AS AMANDA GRAYSON.
BORN ON EARTH
AFTER THE DEATH OF THEIR SON.
THE COUPLE SEPARATED
A SHUTTLE ACCIDENT AT LUNAPORT
ON HER WAY HOME TO EARTH.
THE WIFE WAS KILLED IN
HAS NOT REMARRIED.
AMBASSADOR SAREK
MY MOTHER.
THE SON, WHAT WAS HIS NAME
AND AGE WHEN HE DIED?
SPOCK. AGE SEVEN.
IF WE DIDN'T CHANGE
ANYTHING WHILE WE WERE
IN THE TIME VORTEX,
SOMEONE ELSE MUST HAVE.
WAS THE GUARDIAN IN USE
WHILE WE WERE GONE?
YES, BUT IT WAS
NOTHING UNUSUAL.
RECENT VULCAN HISTORY.
WE WERE SCANNING
-WHAT TIME PERIOD?
-20 TO 30 VULCAN YEARS PAST.
WAS THERE ANY NOTATION
OF AMBASSADOR SAREK'S SON?
ON THE DEATH
[BLEEPING]
YES.
THE BOY IS RECORDED AS DYING
DURING THE MATURITY TEST.
THE KAHS-WAN,
TRADITIONAL FOR YOUNG MALES.
A SURVIVAL TEST
-THE DATE WAS...
-THE 20th DAY OF TASMEEN.
HOW DO YOU KNOW THIS?
THAT WAS THE DAY MY COUSIN
SAVED MY LIFE IN THE DESERT
Spock:
WHEN I WAS ATTACKED
BY A WILD ANIMAL.
Kirk: THIS COUSIN,
WHAT WAS HIS NAME?
I DO NOT RECALL CLEARLY.
I WAS VERY YOUNG.
HE CALLED HIMSELF SELEK.
BUT I NEVER SAW HIM AFTER THAT.
HE WAS VISITING US,
LOOK LIKE YOU DO NOW?
SPOCK, DID SELEK
I BELIEVE SO, CAPTAIN.
WHAT YOU'RE THINKING.
AND I KNOW
IT WAS I WHO SAVED MYSELF
THAT OTHER TIME.
Kirk: BUT THIS TIME, YOU WERE
IN ORION'S PAST WITH US
WHEN THE HISTORIANS
HAD THE TIME VORTEX
REPLAY VULCAN HISTORY.
IN TWO PLACES AT ONCE,
YOU COULDN'T BE
SO YOU DIED AS A BOY.
DID YOU HEAR THAT?
GUARDIAN!
I HEAR ALL.
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR SPOCK
TO RETURN TO VULCAN
AND REPAIR THE TIMELINE
THAT HAS BEEN BROKEN
SO ALL IS THE SAME
AS BEFORE?
IT IS POSSIBLE
IF NO OTHER MAJOR FACTOR
IS CHANGED.
REMEMBER EVERYTHING.
I DO NOT
FROM A CHILD'S POINT OF VIEW,
THERE IS A VAGUE MEMORY
BUT THE DETAILS ARE NOT CLEAR.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER, FOR YOU
AND YOUR MOTHER TO LIVE.
YES.
DESERT SOFT SUIT AND BOOTS
I WILL NEED A VULCAN
AND A SMALL SELECTION
OF STREETWEAR
CIRCA 8877 VULCAN YEARS.
THE CARRY BAG SHOULD BE
OF THE SAME PERIOD.
YOU'VE GOT IT.
I'LL ORDER THE WARDROBE SECTION
TO PREPARE IT NOW.
THIS CHANGE IN THE TIMELINE
WILL PUT YOU IN MY PLACE,
YET I AM NOT AGGRIEVED.
ANDORIANS ARE NOT KNOWN
FOR THEIR CHARITY.
TRUE. A WARRIOR RACE
HAS FEW SYMPATHIES,
BUT ONE WE DO POSSESS
IS FOR FAMILY.
LIVE, AND SO WILL YOUR MOTHER.
IN YOUR TIME PLANE, YOU WILL
THAT IS VALUABLE.
IN YOUR WORLD, COMMANDER SPOCK.
LIVE LONG AND PROSPER
AND YOU IN YOURS,
COMMANDER THELIN.
IN THIS TIME PLANE, TOO.
THE CREW IS EFFICIENT
NICE TO KNOW
SPOCK.
VULCAN, 30 VULCAN YEARS PAST,
I WISH TO VISIT THE PLANET
THE MONTH OF TASMEEN.
NEAR THE CITY OF SHIRKAHR.
LOCATION,
ARE READY TO RECEIVE YOU.
THE TIME AND PLACE
Spock: PERSONAL LOG,
STARDATE 5373.5.
SUBJECTIVE TIME.
I HAVE RETURNED TO THE PAST
TO RESTORE THE FUTURE.
IN AN ATTEMPT
I AM HOME
AND I HAD ALMOST FORGOTTEN
ITS BEAUTY.
Boy 1: EARTHER! BARBARIAN!
EMOTIONAL EARTHER!
Boy 2: YOU'RE A TERRAN, SPOCK.
YOU COULD NEVER BE
A TRUE VULCAN!
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
MY FATHER...
BROUGHT SHAME TO VULCAN.
YOUR FATHER
HE MARRIED A HUMAN.
YOU HAVEN'T EVEN MASTERED
A SIMPLE VULCAN NECK PINCH
YET, EARTHER.
MY APOLOGIES, VISITOR.
Sarek:
TO THAT UNFORTUNATE DISPLAY
I REGRET YOU WERE WITNESS
OF EMOTION
ON THE PART OF MY SON.
IN THE FAMILY, ALL IS SILENCE.
NO MORE WILL BE SAID OF IT.
LIVE LONG AND PROSPER,
SAREK OF VULCAN.
PEACE AND LONG LIFE.
YOU ARE OF MY FAMILY?
MY NAME IS SELEK,
DESCENDED OF T'PEL AND SASAK.
AN HUMBLE COUSIN
TO THE FAMILY SHRINE
TO HONOR OUR GODS.
I AM JOURNEYING
YOU HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO.
WILL YOU BREAK YOUR JOURNEY
WITH US FOR A WHILE, COUSIN?
I AM HONORED.
-IS SOMETHING WRONG, COUSIN?
-NO, NO.
IT SEEMED I KNOW YOU.
IT WAS ONLY THAT
TO OUR FOREFATHERS, NO DOUBT.
A FAMILY RESEMBLANCE
NO DOUBT.
WELL, COME THEN. ALLOW ME
TO WELCOME YOU TO MY HOME.
Sarek: SPOCK.
MEANS FOLLOWING DISCIPLINES
SPOCK, BEING VULCAN
AND PHILOSOPHIES
THAT ARE DIFFICULT AND DEMANDING
OF BOTH MIND AND BODY.
YES, FATHER.
DISPLAY YOUR EMOTIONS.
YOU CONSTANTLY
YOU HAVE EVEN BEEN SEEN
FIGHTING IN THE STREET.
YES, FATHER.
WHEN YOU WILL HAVE TO DECIDE
THE TIME DRAWS NEAR
WHETHER YOU WILL FOLLOW VULCAN
OR HUMAN PHILOSOPHY.
VULCAN OFFERS MUCH.
NO WAR, NO CRIME.
ORDER, LOGIC AND CONTROL
IN PLACE OF RAW EMOTIONS
AND INSTINCT.
ONCE ON THE PATH YOU CHOOSE,
YOU CANNOT TURN BACK.
YES, FATHER.
I HOPE YOU WERE NOT DISTURBED
BY MY SON'S BEHAVIOR, SELEK.
Amanda:
NO, MY LADY AMANDA.
ANY CHILD HAS MUCH TO LEARN.
MY YOUNG COUSIN
HAS A MORE DIFFICULT ROAD
TO TRAVEL THAN OTHERS.
YOU SEEM TO UNDERSTAND HIM
BETTER THAN MY HUSBAND.
IT IS DIFFICULT FOR A FATHER
TO BEAR LESS THAN PERFECTION
IN HIS SON.
SPOCK WILL FIND HIS WAY.
I HOPE SO.
AND ALL ITS TRADITIONS,
I RESPECT VULCAN
BUT IT IS A DEMANDING LIFE.
THE KAHS-WAN ORDEAL SOON,
THE BOY GOES THROUGH
DOES HE NOT?
NEXT MONTH.
IS THE 20th DAY OF TASMEEN.
BUT TOMORROW
YES. IS SOMETHING WRONG?
LOST TRACK OF TIME.
I SEEM TO HAVE
SOON YOU WILL UNDERGO YOUR TEST
OF ADULTHOOD IN THE DESERT.
WITHOUT FOOD, WATER OR WEAPON
TO SURVIVE FOR 10 DAYS
WILL DEMAND MORE OF YOU
ON VULCAN'S FORGE
THAN ANYTHING EVER HAS.
TO FAIL ONCE IS NOT A DISGRACE
FOR OTHERS.
IF YOU FAIL, THERE WILL BE THOSE
WHO WILL CALL YOU A COWARD
ALL YOUR LIFE.
I DO NOT EXPECT YOU TO FAIL.
WHAT IF I DO, FATHER?
TO ASK THAT QUESTION.
THERE IS NO NEED
YOU WILL NOT DISAPPOINT ME.
AND SPIRIT ARE VULCAN.
NOT IF YOUR HEART
A TRUE VULCAN, LIKE THEY SAY?
I-CHAYA, WHAT IF I'M NOT
[I-CHAYA WHINES]
PERSONAL LOG, STARDATE 5373.9.
SUBJECTIVE TIME.
Spock:
SEEMS TO HAVE CHANGED AGAIN.
THE TIMELINE
YET I DO NOT BELIEVE I HAVE DONE
ANYTHING TO DISRUPT IT.
MY MEMORY IS QUITE CLEAR
MY COUSIN SAVED MY LIFE,
REGARDING THE DATE
AND IT IS TOMORROW.
THE KAHS-WAN ORDEAL
IS AN ANCIENT RITE
OF WARRIOR DAYS.
WHEN VULCANS TURNED TO LOGIC,
THEY REASONED THEY MUST
OF COURAGE AND STRENGTH
MAINTAIN THE TESTS
MAKING THEM WEAK AND HELPLESS.
TO KEEP PURE LOGIC FROM
[YOWLING]
THIS IS MY OWN TEST.
NO, I-CHAYA,
I HAVE TO DO IT ALONE.
STAY.
[WHINES]
OF COURSE.
I SHOULD HAVE REMEMBERED.
IT WASN'T THE ACTUAL
KAHS-WAN ORDEAL.
I-CHAYA, GO HOME.
AND TOO FAT FOR THIS.
YOU ARE TOO OLD
[WHINES]
THAT'S HOW YOU ALWAYS
GET AROUND MOTHER,
BUT IT DOES NOT WORK WITH ME.
GO HOME, I-CHAYA.
Spock: PERSONAL LOG.
THE BOY SPOCK SHOULD BE MOVING
TOWARD THE LLANGON MOUNTAINS.
TO PROVE TO MYSELF.
HE... I HAD MUCH
UPON WHICH I EMBARKED
THE PERSONAL ORDEAL
THE COURSE MY LIFE WOULD TAKE.
WAS MEANT TO DETERMINE
AND THE VISITOR ARE GONE.
SAREK, OUR SON
SOMETHING STRANGE ABOUT HIM.
THIS COUSIN, SELEK,
YOU DON'T THINK
HE'D HARM SPOCK?
I DON'T KNOW, AMANDA.
I WILL NOTIFY THE AUTHORITIES
TO INITIATE A SEARCH.
AND ASK THEM
[CREATURE TRUMPETING]
[TRUMPETING LOUDLY]
[I-CHAYA GROWLING]
[ROARING]
I-CHAYA, GOOD BOY.
I SUGGEST WE MOVE AWAY
FROM THIS AREA
REGAINS CONSCIOUSNESS.
BEFORE THE LE-MATYA
THANK YOU FOR HELPING ME
AND I-CHAYA.
IT WAS MY DUTY, SPOCK.
YOU SHOULD ALWAYS SAY THANK YOU.
MOTHER SAYS
THE LADY AMANDA IS KNOWN
FOR HER GRACIOUSNESS.
BE ABLE TO DO THAT NECK PINCH
DO YOU THINK I'LL EVER
AS WELL AS YOU?
I DARE SAY YOU WILL.
COME, NOW.
YOU FOLLOWED ME. WHY?
I SUSPECTED YOU WOULD GO.
ABOUT THE KAHS-WAN ORDEAL.
YOU ARE WORRIED
I HAD TO SEE IF I COULD DO IT.
A PERSONAL TEST.
I CANNOT FAIL.
-THAT IS YOUR FATHER'S WISH?
-YES, AND MY MOTHER'S.
THEY... THEY CONFUSE ME.
TO DO THINGS HIS WAY,
FATHER WANTS ME
AND MOTHER SAYS I SHOULD.
BUT THEN SHE GOES...
SHE IS A HUMAN WOMAN
WITH STRONG EMOTION
AND SENSITIVITIES.
SHE EMBARRASSES YOU
WITH THOSE TRAITS,
WHEN YOU SEE THEM IN YOURSELF.
AND YOU ARE AFRAID
HOW DID YOU KNOW?
THERE IS SOME HUMAN BLOOD
IN MY FAMILY LINE.
IT IS NOT FATAL.
YET UNDERSTAND, SPOCK,
WHAT YOU DO NOT
DO NOT LACK EMOTION.
IS THAT VULCANS
IT IS ONLY THAT OURS
IS CONTROLLED.
LOGIC OFFERS A SERENITY HUMANS
SELDOM EXPERIENCE IN FULL.
BUT WE DEAL WITH THEM
WE HAVE EMOTIONS,
AND DO NOT LET THEM
CONTROL US.
[MOANING]
I-CHAYA!
THE LE-MATYA STRUCK HIM WITH ITS
POISON CLAWS IN THE FIGHT.
-IS HE DYING?
-YES.
Spock: PERSONAL LOG.
SOMETHING UNEXPECTED
HAS AGAIN OCCURRED.
THE SEHLAT, I-CHAYA,
CLAWS OF THE LE-MATYA HE FOUGHT.
WAS STRUCK BY THE POISONOUS
HE IS DYING, UNLESS WE CAN FIND
A HEALER, AND SOON.
TO THE CITY TO A HEALER.
WE CANNOT GET HIM BACK
HE IS TOO LARGE TO MOVE.
THEN WHAT?
WHAT IS THE LOGICAL THING TO DO?
YOU ARE A VULCAN.
I CAN BRING A HEALER HERE.
IT IS A LONG JOURNEY
ACROSS THE DESERT.
THERE ARE MANY DANGERS.
I WILL GO.
NO. THIS IS MY DUTY.
CAN DO IT FOR ME.
NO ONE ELSE
WILL YOU STAY WITH HIM?
HAPPEN BEFORE.
THIS DID NOT
MY LIFE DECISION WAS MADE
WITHOUT THE SACRIFICE
OF YOURS, OLD FRIEND.
I KNOW THERE IS PAIN.
I CAN HELP A LITTLE.
SLEEP NOW.
I TRUST YOUR ERRAND IS URGENT?
THE HOUR IS LATE.
MOST URGENT, HEALER.
MY SEHLAT FOUGHT A LE-MATYA
IN THE LLANGON FOOTHILLS.
HE SUFFERED A SMALL WOUND,
BUT THE POISON OF ITS CLAWS
IS WORKING IN HIM NOW.
PLEASE, YOU MUST COME WITH ME.
HE NEEDS YOUR HEALING.
YOU ARE SPOCK, SON OF SAREK,
ARE YOU NOT?
-YES, HEALER.
-I HAVE HEARD OF YOU.
I HAVE HEARD OF A TENDENCY
TOWARD WHAT HUMANS CALL
"PRACTICAL JOKES."
I DID THAT ONCE,
TWO YEARS AGO.
HEALER, I WOULD NOT CALL YOU OUT
UNLESS A LIFE WAS IN DANGER.
THE SON OF SAREK WAS A LIAR?
HAVE YOU EVER HEARD
NO. THAT HAS NEVER BEEN SAID.
VERY WELL.
WAIT HERE AND I WILL
GET MY MEDICINES.
HEALER, PLEASE HURRY.
Young Spock:
[MOANING]
[WHIRRING]
IT WILL NOT BE LONG NOW,
OLD FRIEND.
YOU MADE THE DESERT CROSSING
MOST EFFICIENTLY.
YOU WILL NOT DISAPPOINT SAREK
IN YOUR KAHS-WAN.
I WANTED ONLY TO HELP I-CHAYA.
HE WAS MY FATHER'S
BEFORE HE WAS MINE.
TO LOSE HIM...
SUCH A LOSS WITHOUT TEARS.
A VULCAN WOULD FACE
HOW?
EVERY LIFE COMES TO AN END
BY UNDERSTANDING
WHEN TIME DEMANDS IT.
LOSS OF LIFE IS TO BE MOURNED
BUT ONLY IF THE LIFE
WAS WASTED.
I-CHAYA'S WAS NOT.
SPOCK.
-YES, SIR?
-IT HAS BEEN TOO LONG.
WILL SAVE HIS LIFE.
NO ANTIDOTE KNOWN
IS THERE NOTHING YOU CAN DO?
I CAN PROLONG HIS LIFE,
BUT HE WILL BE IN PAIN.
OR I CAN RELEASE HIM
FROM LIFE.
I WILL NEED YOUR DECISION.
HE IS YOUR PET.
RELEASE HIM.
WITH PEACE AND DIGNITY.
IT IS FITTING HE DIES
TROUBLED YOU IN ANY WAY,
I REGRET HAVING
BUT IT WAS NECESSARY.
I TRUST YOU CAN EXPLAIN
WHY IT WAS NECESSARY?
THERE WAS A DECISION
TO BE MADE.
A DIRECTION FOR MY LIFE
HAD TO BE CHOSEN.
I CHOSE VULCAN.
IT IS GOOD, THEN.
YOU HAVE COMPORTED YOURSELF
WITH HONOR.
BROUGHT HOME FROM THE MOUNTAINS.
WE WILL SEE I-CHAYA IS
THANK YOU, FATHER.
IF YOU WILL EXCUSE ME NOW,
TO CONDUCT WITH SCHOOLMATES.
I HAVE SOME BUSINESS
BUSINESS?
OF THE VULCAN NECK PINCH.
A DEMONSTRATION
OUR COUSIN TAUGHT ME.
MUST MAKE MY FAREWELLS.
I, TOO,
YOUR HOSPITALITY HAS BEEN MOST
KIND, BUT I MUST JOURNEY ON.
YOU SAVED MY SON'S LIFE,
SELEK.
I CAN FULLY REPAY YOU FOR THAT.
THERE IS NO WAY
TRY TO UNDERSTAND YOUR SON,
SAREK OF VULCAN.
IT WILL BE REPAYMENT ENOUGH
FOR ME.
BUT I WILL HONOR IT.
A STRANGE REQUEST,
IF YOU PASS THIS WAY AGAIN.
MY HOME IS YOURS
I THINK I SHALL NOT.
PEACE AND LONG LIFE.
LIVE LONG AND PROSPER, COUSIN.
THE TRAVELER IS RETURNING.
Guardian:
[DRONING]
UP TO THE SHIP. WHAT HAPPENED?
I SENT THE OTHERS
WAS CHANGED THIS TIME.
ONE SMALL THING
A PET DIED.
A PET?
WELL, THAT WOULDN'T MEAN MUCH
IN THE COURSE OF TIME.
IT MIGHT TO SOME.
ENTERPRISE, THIS IS THE CAPTAIN.
TWO TO BEAM UP.
TWO TO BEAM UP. AYE, SIR.
Scotty:
WELL, WELL, WELL.
SO YOU TWO FINALLY GOT BACK
FROM YOUR VACATION.
WHILE YOU'VE BEEN RUNNING
ALL OVER ORION'S CREATION,
THE ANNUAL CREW PHYSICALS.
I'VE BEEN RUNNING
YOU'RE THE LAST ONES.
WELCOME ABOARD, MR. SPOCK.
NEVER MIND THE CHITCHAT.
I'VE GOT MY MEDICAL SCANNERS
ALL SET UP FOR A VULCAN.
I HAVE TO RECALIBRATE EVERY TIME
I RUN A PHYSICAL ON YOU, SPOCK.
DR. McCOY, YOU DO NOT KNOW
YOUR GOOD FORTUNE.
IF THE TIMES WERE DIFFERENT,
YOU WOULD HAVE TO RECALIBRATE
FOR AN ANDORIAN.
SUPPOSED TO MEAN?
WHAT'S THAT
IF THAT WAS SUPPOSED
TO BE A JOKE, SPOCK,
VULCANS DON'T TELL JOKES.
I HAVE TO REMIND YOU
TIMES CHANGE, DOCTOR.
TIMES CHANGE.